Welcome to text during the head in this video will make sure our scenes are actually in the right place.
We put them on our model but we don't really know if they're in the right place.
We start texturing we're going to connect our texture to the model itself because even though they're
kind of connected at the moment we won't be able to see what's going on and we have tests to make sure
it is working as expected.
Once we've plucked the texture into a model that's go ahead and hop straight on over into a blender.
Okay so in front of us we have you v mesh that we've been working on and let's bring up.
Well in fact on the change the outline I don't think I'm going to need it.
Famous last words of course to the 3-d view.
And let's scoot round and hit render in that viewport so we can see what's going on.
Now that looks okay for the moment.
We need a node editor up now.
Ahead a few smap after a star against sellers make sure I save that so save as image head a few smap
and I need to add that to my assets.
I'm gonna add it to my texture's head the first map.
There we go.
Now it is important that you save and I'll show you why in a few moments so first of all let's go ahead
and will.
Lots of things we can do here.
Let's open up the node editor.
First of all so we can see what's going on.
And let's find our diffuse input which is here.
And we need to go ahead and add in a texture to that and because it's you've even mapped and we've got
node Wrangler enabled in there add ons.
Okay so back over in blender there are a couple of things that I would want to do before getting on
texturing so we can see what's going on.
So first of all angara Changed my outline here to a 3D view image can make its tiny bit bigger.
So see what is going on.
Excellent And so there's a 3D view and I'm going to pop it in rendered mode for the moment will switch
over to material mode as well just to see the difference between those two.
Now at the moment it won't show anything at all in rendered mode to do with this image because we've
not set any of that up.
And secondly we haven't saved our image someone is going to go ahead and save the image save us image.
Okay let's move this bit open and then go to the node editor that's whizzed down through the bottom.
Here we have art a few shader now.
The colour of that is going to be controlled by this texture.
Now because I have no Wrangler enabled I've lit she just go control and tea and that will add in the
necessary nodes for me and I can just move those across.
And because we've generated this texture in blender it should just be on this drop down here head diffuse
smap.
There we go.
We can see it's made the colour off the overall face I suppose and man made this orthographic.
Wow a difference perspective makes an orthographic huge difference.
Okay so let's leave it like that for the moment.
So we've got this now controlling the texture itself of the colour strip of the femur and is matched
with you visalus absolutely fine.
So we should be able to do now is hop on ovett in TO PAINT mode.
In either of these and start painting if I go ahead I need a different colour than black so you can
see it.
Now if I go ahead and paint in the U V Ed panel nothing changes here.
In fact if we isolate the diffuse map itself everything will go black because something that is a true
black doesn't reflect any light it absorbs all.
So that won't happen at all until we go ahead and I can't hear EF 3 Unfortunately on my Mac it won't
work.
But as soon as I go to save his image and save that image it will then show the actual text to change
that I have done.
Now that's a bit different.
If we're in material mode if we're in material modem with a hop out of edit mode as well so we can see
what's going on and then go in to paint texture paint.
We can actually all that is probably going to slow down.
Blender didn't mean to do that straightaway but basically if you go ahead and paint directly on your
model whilst in texture mode in the viewport itself we will see the changes occurring on the rest of
our model.
Once it's caught up then or whether you see the spinning wheel.
There we go.
For you V map itself has actually updated or rather the image has updated but it hasn't saved.
It works one way and not the other so if your painting in the view port it will update your image but
you do need to make sure you save your image.
If you don't save your image then you can end up what you will end up losing it.
And don't worry I have lost data that way too.
Everything link looks great with your model and then all of a sudden you reopen your file and you like
well where's my dick.
No I know I've done I've not bothered saving it.
Whoops.
Because everything looks right.
We do need to make sure you've saved your image songas going to get into the habit of saving my image.
You can of course pack the data into the blend far as our special use will if your giving the file to
other people to work on as well or even just to share that model with other people.
Remember to pack into the blend file otherwise they will get something that looks magento rather than
your actual wonderful texture that you've done so.
The final thing to go over in here is when actually painting it may be worthwhile turning down the malty
rows modifiers preview setting because then you're not having to render quite so many triangles and
the view poor be much more responsive for painting than it would be otherwise.
And we can see updating there now one of the things when you paint in the viewport is you will end up
with anything that's not facing the camera.
Anything that's beyond that 90 degrees you sometimes end up with this horrible black outline.
Well that's when you need to use the u v editor itself the U.S. image editor itself in order to paint
that detail on.
And of course providing you've remembered to save in the rendered mode and you can see that it hasn't
updated since the last render so are half up from the last save.
We can go in and save as image.
Once you've done that there we go we can see that one half of our model is now shaded a map or that
is actually pretty cool.
That's a bit of a side point there.
When you shade something like this you can create quite an artistic effect.
Not intended but that does look pretty awesome anyway.
So now it is time to give you guys a challenge.
I'd like you to go ahead and create your diffuse and gloss map.
So remember a diffused map is a map without any shadows.
It will look quite washed out and that is okay.
We will have colorin it of course.
Now use the same UV map for all your images so whether you're using it for a class map a normal map
or anything else you'll want to use the same you v map that we've already unwrapped.
Now looking at reference material to get this right is quite important.
Remember start off with a almost a block work colour model so the base colour and then start adding
in colour variations and you can even go down to Freckles.
If you want to to add that little bit of extra realism and have a look at where the skin is naturally
shiny that's very important very useful.
And of course above all else remember to save your images that is really important.
We don't want you losing your work.
As I said I've done it before and it's really frustrating.
Having opened up your file again to find that the image that you've spent a couple of hours working
on has gone or at least part of it has gone.
Okay so pause video now and give that a go.
Okay guys welcome back.
Let's go ahead and create are diffuse anger loss maps.
Okay so back over in blender here and one of the first things I'm going to do is just make sure we've
got a basically a default covering of our model.
So you've got something to work on and because I want the overall white I can go in here right now make
sure we've got white selected and then go ahead and paint in the necessary colour.
Now you may see the screen go a bit funny on the side here I've got myself my iPad plugged in so I can
literally just go in and scribble over the areas that I need coloured in.
Okay so we've now got a white base mesh around our model and of course I've got to remember to go ahead
and save that image in the moment.
I save the image the rest of the screen showed up dates for us.
I'll just click in this window here.
And move it around.
I go in and out.
There we go.
So if that doesn't work for whatever reason come in and out of rendered mode as well will help you massively.
Now this is going to be the diffuse smap and it's certainly not going to be bright white.
It's going to be a slightly different colour.
So of course you can pick for colour that you want and then go ahead and colour it in how you want to
have your mesh coloured in.
And again don't be shy with just experimenting with how things look.
Of course any to go ahead and save that.
So go ahead and save that now go down the image.
Save as image and save as image again.
That's a refresher.
We've got her a nice base colorin here now I've got a few streaks but I'll go in and sort out those
in a bit.
One of my favourite tools brushes to use is either softer or smear to try and blend in different colours
especially when you go ahead and let's say.
Oh I don't know Pop.
I don't want to use it just yet.
Let's say I go in and create some bags under the eyes.
Now they're generally slightly pinkey so I can go in here.
Zoom into the eyes themselves here and let's say add this source of colour effects to one and the other.
And then once we've got these the colours in there we can scroll back up.
Go and use the smear tool for instance come in and just blend it around our model a bit more.
Now this is on point a low setting a strength of 30 percent a bit higher.
I can start moving this colour out and around our model.
Now you will have to obviously have a look at some real reference images.
I'm not doing that right at this moment so I'm going to go and grab some as I'm just demonstrating the
art of what I'm about to go off and do.
And I'll rejoin in a few moments.
So I've got basically a base map here so I'm going to go around now and start adding in the textual
variants across a the model itself.
Remember specifically looking at colour and not lighting information it's very easy to mix the two up
if we're not careful.
So the final thing I want to do here is actually switch over from rendered mode which chews up my computer's
processing power into material mode and then we can see what's actually going on life.
Now of course this isn't particularly bright at the moment.
That's not to worry.
We can also be in texture mode and we can also see what's going on.
I mean see of whopping great big line across the top.
Of course these are the scenes.
This is why you want to avoid.
In fact the seams look like they're in a really nice place with they be hidden behind a hairline or
out of shots even better.
Hmm.
So here's our model looking pretty good now was we're here of course we can also use the smear tool
so I can go to this area here and make this look at least well try and make it look a little bit better.
And the same around the eyes here as well.
Now of course depending on how fast your computer is amongst other things you can up the preview count
as well if you want to do some more detailed textures on the surface of your model.
Anyway so I'm going to go off now and do some more texturing and I will see you guys back in a few moments.
Okay so playing about with a bit I've managed to get a basic map done and we can see the various areas
here that just make him a bit bigger.
So I've got some slight freckling on the fore head and over the bridge of the nose as well.
I could work on those a bit further to bring them out a little more but I'm happy with the subtle effect
that creates as well as I have hit F 12 and rent that out just to see what it's like in full rended
our Mugler bore you guys wait for that to all come out because I've got the spec map to do now the glossy
map and of course that's going to be a black and white image based upon this.
So the first thing to do of course is to make sure that we have saved any work we've done.
And then I'm going to literally just hit new and I'm going to call it head on Lossie.
And I'm going to make sure it is the same size so that when I hit.
Okay.
There we go.
We're ready to go.
Obviously if I made it a different size I also have the scale that you've map accordingly.
So the next thing to know is where glossy areas are will be white and where not glossy is are will be
not white or black in this case.
Now of course it won't be a one or the other there will be a sort of a gloss fall off so it will go.
Well we just use the paint brush basically.
This one here will draw the areas white that need to be white.
And let's go in here set the hue and saturation to zero and the brightness all the value to one.
And then we can that she say with the fall head is going to be glossy and I can just build that up like
so.
And of course I can paint.
This is what this looking like.
By the way that's come out of some nice rough marks on it this coming out really well I'm really pleased
with it.
I leave it all to the eyes.
They're not looking right.
On this side for some reason I am in the middle but not around the edge I still think that the face
isn't forward enough on this right hand side of the eye anyway.
That's what you get when you play with your models you start to see things that are wrong quite often
no doubt how the bridge of the nose will also be shining.
So you start painting that and I'll do this in 3-d mode as well because we're about to do symmetry.
If you're in 3-d mode in your painting.
You can turn on the symmetry down at the bottom here on the tall shelf.
Very useful.
Of course I want to be able to see the map I'm working on some will go to slots and make sure that when
I'm here I'm not painting on ahead diffused in facts.
In this case I have to save my image because it has not been saved yet and still says available to lots.
Nothing.
And that is because in the node editing we've not plugged it into anything.
So you've got the layaways at the moment controlling what's glossy and what's not.
And this time we can go to a.
We just go control here no we can't unfortunately get control TV.
So I wanted to add an image.
Texture.
So the image texture.
And of course for the rest of this is not going to be a nothing is going to be a nonkosher data and
that can come out of there.
Now the rest of this the facts are and everything can be taken directly from here.
I can't see everything at once.
They're a bit far away of that of there.
And that will be basically saying what is glossy and what is not.
And we can have a look specifically at the bloche shade.
We're not attached to anything just yet that's go ahead.
Head glossy so we can see where it's going to be glossy on here now by preview and this image here.
Of course if we preview one further down the line it'll look completely different.
But let's start working on this and I'll see you guys back in a few moments once I've covered in the
areas that I want to be glossy.
Okay so after playing around with a while I haven't finished off the years quite yet but this is what
my model is looking like.
So I think it's time now to go out and save it.
First of all I have not done that.
Otherwise I won't be able to see it working and miss isn't fully on my screen.
There we go.
Okay so we need to savours image and save fat and we know it's in there and let's just have a quick
look at it on the rended moaned.
Cause I haven't previewed the right areas that go to my node editor and go to the final mix so we can
see where things are now excellent so we can see where it's shiny and where it's not that's working
really well and now just a matter of tweaking.
The mix of things coming in so we've gots is it.
So there's not enough of that coming through now.
The actual gloss shelf we can see here after playing with it it has made some areas very shiny So I
think I actually need to tone that down a little and I'm going to do that by adding in a colour ramp.
So only need a vector.
No I need to convert a colour ramp.
When I've lost my colour ramp over it's gone.
There it is.
Pop it in there.
Now I can change where the white value starts and ends can make everything shinier or I can make everything
less shiny and less shiny is what I need to do and I need to zoom in to do that I can actually click
on the right.
Okay.
And I don't want to shift the Black Value up or the white.
Let's preview what's going on.
Okay.
I think I need to bring the white value down.
That's making everything white.
I need to change the white to a grace.
Ah there we go.
So let's go for a mid Grey let's go back into render mode and see what's going on.
Let's view the right things we need to go to this make shader here and preview that's our that's starting
to look much much better.
Excellent.
Tell us looking much better it's not.
Well it is no longer overly shiny but it's shiny in the appropriate places like around the lips along
the nose et cetera et cetera.
Really.
How did you guys get on how how did you did you make a similar sort of blue.
Brillion How did you guys get on.
Share your work in the discussions I'd love to see how you've combined these maps and the matou as you've
come up with.
I need to alter my eyes I'm signed to spot some things that I just need a whole touch and tweak with
my model because they're not quite right at the moment.
And they've started to come about by just looking at the model and actually doing this materials work
on it.
They really start to stand out.
Appreciate your work in the discussions and I will see you in the next lecture.